Welcome to AB testing podcast, your modern testing podcast.
Your hosts, Alan and Brent will be here to guide you through topics on testing, leadership,
agile and anything else that comes to mind.
Now on with the show.
We should never ever, ever do a live show ever, ever again.
Hey everybody, I'm Alan.
And this is take four and a half of the AB testing 200 episode extravaganza podcast.
Are you going to just let the intro continue?
It's going to fade out.
This is the actual intro I put in the thing.
So just I'm in control now.
I hope.
Oh my God.
So everybody, thanks for hanging out with us.
Yeah.
How are you doing, Brent?
I'm doing super.
I'm super excited about this today.
Like so many milestones.
Oh, indeed.
So so that was utterly perfect.
Now you all know what goes on behind the scenes, not only get to hear Brent grunt and do stuff,
uh, something's going to happen.
So today, today, today is April 3rd.
What's special about April 3rd, Brent?
I want three answers, three for the three.
Oh, I was just thinking because it's four, three as in four.
Oh my God.
Like the old three, four, this everything is coming together.
Three four three was the old interview series.
I did three questions for the one of the three listeners.
This is four, three.
This is three things happen today on four, three.
Those three things are one, Brent.
This is our 200th podcast.
And what else, Brent?
This is actually our 10th anniversary of the release of episode one.
I'm holding up three fingers now.
Yeah, I'm going to let you give that last one, uh, cause you're the one that did the
ad campaign to make it happen.
Yeah, we, we have 1000 Slack users.
Uh, that's it.
That's pretty cool.
That's a pretty number.
And I'm ready to write that.
By the way, three orders of magnitude.
It was better and I already pointed it out.
It was better than we were at 999 most of the day today and it was a, um, a multiple
of three.
Did you get your wife just to sign in?
Is that what happened?
Actually, I was so tempted earlier to say, Hey, Katie, uh, my daughter, Katie, uh, you
don't want her to see how much of a bad time we give you there.
10.
Yeah, that's right.
10 to the power of three.
Um, no, but for me, like when I was saying four or three, like to me, that's the answer
to the question.
Why we did this podcast.
Absolutely.
It was for the three.
And it was a surprising to me, a little bit reflection here that you've all already listened
to one 99 where we went back and listened to episode one.
And I was a little surprised how like we knew what we were going to talk about before we
knew what we were going to talk about.
And here we are talking about the same crap 10 years later.
Yeah.
Or, or we were just one, you know, one trick ponies and just come up with new ways of
saying the same shit for 200 episodes.
Maybe, maybe.
Uh, yet another reason why there are only three listeners.
We have a couple things to cover on our side today and also have some recordings to play,
but maybe I thought we'd kick it off.
If someone had something to say or a question for us or anything, but before we get, thank
you for your questions now, before we do that, Brent, I want you to do, I'm going to switch.
Uh, no, I'm going to keep to my order here.
Anybody have any questions?
Chime right in.
Otherwise we're going to go into our next segment.
Like we have segments professional.
That's a great question in that.
The question is, I'm sorry, we are not releasing the video tonight, just the audio, like a
normal podcast because otherwise it would be something else.
It's not a podcast.
And the question is, should Alan run a centralized test org?
And that answer is fuck no.
Uh, I disagree.
And do you just want to lose, want me to lose the bet with Jason?
No, no.
Uh, I, I disagree because the best way to destroy dysfunction is from the top from within.
Oh, actually, you know what?
You're, you know, you're thinking ahead because if I ran a centralized test org, as I have
done in the past, that org would be gone within a year, but not in a way that was
dysfunctional to the org in a way that actually helped the org accelerate.
So if you want help moving out of tests into something new, I will come run your test
org for one year.
Yeah.
The best way to get rid of command and control is put someone in command and control to
remove command and control.
Oh, I got to figure out how to put that into my LinkedIn job description thing.
You should.
I like you reminded me, there have been multiple times people are like, we want you to put
you in charge of this.
And I'm like, are you sure?
Yes.
Why?
Because my first action will be to destroy the thing you want me to be in charge of.
So the thing is, especially about the last time I did this, it did this.
Um, nobody really noticed it was happening until it was done.
And then I had to find the new job.
It was great.
Yeah.
I believe it.
People are afraid.
I think people think they want to, this is Mel's question is I've offered to run orgs
to modernize things and I don't get hired.
And it's true because people go, we want to advance and then you show them, okay, I can
help you advance.
This is what it looks like.
And they say, oh, oh no, we don't want that.
No, no, no, no, a little bit of advancement, a little bit, a little bit.
Now you, you, you cannot go in a lot of the times with, with that sort of outrageous
idea.
You got to have it internal, but you can't sell it like, oh, you want to be modern.
I know the definition of definition of modern.
I'm going to take you there because that's too scary.
But you got to do is go, oh yeah, I know exactly, uh, the, the right thing to do here.
And the first step is this and you kind of hit that you have a vision in the roadmap
and you do, but you don't want to share it because too early because it's going to
trigger people's risk.
I find the best way to do deep organizational change is to minimize the number of people
you tell what you're doing has to be subtle and secret.
And you do it in a way that people don't know what's happening.
Uh, boil the frog.
Don't give me your stupid cliches.
Hey, I have a question for you.
We'll wait for more questions.
We will be interruptible completely because we are the tangent friendly podcast.
Grant, when you look back on the last 10 years, like what do you, what do you think
of? What are a couple of thoughts that come to mind?
Um, I go, I think about particularly after last episode, because the guy will tell
you it was shocking.
It really was.
I don't know how you felt, but it was shocking to hear from Microsoft Allen again.
And that just flashed me back.
Like it, in some regards, it is, it is interesting.
Like having, having the three on the call, uh, is, is fantastic.
And I was thinking about 10 years and I'm like, okay, have we had an impact?
Right.
And in some regards, I can be on, you know, I can go quality assurance and find all the
bugs and what we've been doing.
Right.
We're a bunch of two guys randomly talking bullshit every week.
We're kind of, uh, there's some evidence that we're doing the same things over and
over again.
Has there been an impact?
Um, you know, the fact that, that we hit a thousand, we have people on the call
today celebrating with us.
Yeah, we have.
Um, I don't know.
I don't know what the impact was.
I mean, NTP coming up with that generated a lot of fun, like shaking the
tree and getting people to, to, you know, spark a little, use a little controversy
to spark a conversation amongst the traditionalists and, and what we call
modern, um, that was not only fun, but I think it was, if nothing else, we did that.
Right.
We, we helped encourage a conversation.
Um, uh, and that's what I wanted to continue to try to do.
Yeah.
Um, and by the way, MTP or modern testing principles, you can read those at
modern testing.org we did not like, it was funny.
Uh, those of you don't know the story.
We have been talking about the changes in delivery for years and years and years.
And then I think I had read Dalio's principles and I gave Brent like, Hey, I
think we should have principles that are hard to capture what we had.
And there were, I mean, they went through a lot of iteration.
It was very much an agile approach to developing these.
We iterated a lot.
And then we had the community give some feedback on them.
And I wasn't until episode 77 where we first really shared them.
That was called the conception of the modern testing principles.
And we've dove deep into a lot of those.
And as you all know, it's going to be a recap for our listeners, but we always
thought seven where we said that we drive quality throughout the team.
I'm paraphrasing and remove the need for dedicated specialists.
Even if that means you don't have dedicated specialists, horrible
paraphrased, you get what I mean?
We thought that was going to freak people out, but no, they said, okay,
that makes sense, but damn it.
Don't you tell me the customer is know how to know how the, how the quality
of the product better than I do.
And that one kind of blew me away.
Still surprised about that one.
Yeah.
I'm not, and I'm actually surprised that you are right.
Cause one of my favorite images is was, was one of your slide decks.
Right.
The, I know which one you're talking about.
It's, it's essentially, Hey test, wake up.
Like the, the, the clothes that you've been putting on where we're
the customer's advocate.
We're the customer's champion.
Right.
That's, and that's bullshit and everyone in your business, except you
and the other testers know this.
And this was, and Percy will remember this because way back when in
the podcast were in the twenties, I think the first time I used that was
in a presentation I gave it test bash called testing without testers.
Kind of.
And I talked about, you know, we're the blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
We're the last, but the last line of defense to these superheroes.
And then I said, Brent, favorite slide.
You also is the last line of defense.
And I showed some people shoveling up shit behind horses in a parade.
And, but they kept those roads high quality.
They did.
Yeah, they did.
So maybe not.
I think I was high on Eric Reese.
So I really, it just made so much sense to me that you had to have
the customer input to understand quality.
So anyway, um, I do want to talk a little bit of reflection and then one thought I had.
So, uh, 77, where we talked about the modern testing principles, probably
one of our best episodes, I mean, I won't say best quality, but monumental as far as
like starting something new, he really, uh, grew a lot from there.
I, um, I'm going to go 10 lower.
Uh, and if you don't remember.
Oh yeah.
That, that, that is one of, one of our fan favorites, the traditional
versus modern testing manager.
Yeah.
And, uh, yeah, we, we role played into yet what it's worth listening to.
What would be a role would be a modern testing manager who thought about fast
delivery and fast feedback loops and the typical old school, I am here to
be your gatekeeper of quality.
It was fun.
People like that.
And if you want to go one more reflection, then I have one, two more reflections.
If we go even 10 lower, we had a low point.
Um, we were playing with the idea of guests and we had a guest and I don't
want to pick on them too much, but we had someone in talk about keyword
based testing and it was a little, it was a struggle for both of us.
Um, if, if I, these days, if I do that same thing over again, I would
push back much harder.
I was too, Microsoft Allen was too polite.
I think I, I, as, as much as that episode pinged me.
Um, I actually do think the fact it woke up something in both of us.
Cause I, I'm not certain we would have done MTP without that episode.
Maybe.
Cause for me, it lit a fire.
I'm like, this is so wrong.
Right.
Um, uh, I do know that a big part of that was, was, was in the back of my head.
When I played the role of the traditional test manager, right?
Uh, like, you know, it's one of those things celebrate the fails is something
that we talk about all the time.
The only way, the only way to really commute, uh, commit a crime in this
is failing to learn from it.
Yeah.
And there's something for us, by the way, about episodes that end in seven,
cause you go back 20 episodes from that episode 37, that was the one that it
at test bashed Philadelphia that we did a whole AB testing episode without Brit.
So Vernon and Percy and test Pappy, who we'll hear from later, he's
sleeping in Europe, but he, but through the magic of recordings, we're
going to hear from him later.
Uh, the four of us recorded a podcast backstage at test bash in Philadelphia.
I remember, I remember it very well.
Cause I flew to Philadelphia the day after Donald Trump was elected.
And I was in shock, in absolute shock, but I gave my talk and, um,
one of my favorite moments there, I met, I met Angie crap.
I'm spacing out with Angie's last name.
Angie test automation, super smart guru of, of testing.
Uh, somebody in the chat helped me out because I'm, I am Angie Jones.
Thank you so much.
I met Angie there for the first time.
And we had a great conversation.
He goes, I'm after you tomorrow.
So don't, um, so don't make me look bad.
And I didn't make her look bad.
She's an excellent presenter, but I did this famous thing where I talked
about bugs going back and forth.
Play a little game at ping pong on stage.
And she comes up to me and she says, I told you to take it easy.
You hear that playing ping pong on stage.
And now it's like, it's like, you can go way back when, you know, uh, Taylor
Swift opened for Keith Urban and now Angie's the superstar and I'm, I'm less
than Keith Urban, but that's the best I could do anyway.
Uh, that was a fun, fun time.
And then one last thing I want to reflect on, uh, before we move on is.
And maybe nobody will get this comparison because Brent, one thing listening on
episode one is I have been giving you a hard time for 200 episodes, except
for the one you were not.
No, you would gave me a hard one on that one too.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
A hard time.
Cause you gave you a hard time by, by not inviting you.
Right.
And everybody knows and you know that I like you and we work well together.
And, uh, uh, the thing is I, I, I'm a big fan.
My wife taught me to listen to the pivot podcast.
You may also listen to pivot podcast.
Maybe no, I'm looking for that.
I see some typing.
So pit.
Oh, so Ryan, I think you're the one that posted about it in our Slack channel.
I am Kara Swisher and Brent is Scott Galloway.
Scott Galloway, super smart, knows his stuff.
He's rich as fuck.
Uh, Kara Swisher just gives him crap.
They give each other crap all the time, but she like belittles him
and it just rolls off.
Whatever.
Uh, he gives her a little bit more back than you give me, but I think,
uh, for the purposes of this comparison, I will say I am Kara Swisher
and you are Scott Galloway.
And that's my takeaway.
Oh, okay.
I guess I'll pivot.
Um, yeah.
Now, if we were to go into, uh, the second 100, right?
I'm looking back, uh, like the first 100, I would say our number one repeat
guess was Steve row.
Oh, Steve more.
Yeah, we haven't, we haven't talked to him in a hot second.
Uh, it'd be interesting to have him back on and, um, like with the QA perspective
and I would love to hear like how the LLM fad is hitting him.
Um, but one thing, timing was a fantastic in, in, and, and yeah, right.
And he was there because I tweeted once we can talk about Angie Jones again,
because I tweeted once and I said, reason number 497, I hate selenium.
And I posted this ridiculously horrible cause I found it on the internet.
Someone said, Hey, I solved my problem by doing this.
And it was ridiculously long selector sequence.
They used to get out of control in selenium.
Sure.
It works.
It's horrible as hell.
It's awful.
It's why developers should write automation.
And I posted that and Angie got really pissed at me.
And she was, I mean, she was right and wrong at the same time, but I, I, it, I
recognize it caused her anger.
So we had a conversation about it in that conversation.
Huggins drops in and all of a sudden is volunteering to be on our podcast.
And we had a great conversation and he, and yeah, it was, it was
one of my favorite guests ever.
All my guests are the favorite except for, except for the one in 57.
Yeah.
No, they've always, they've all brought something that was fantastic.
Um, and I'm just going to be on the record.
I've already told Alan this, uh, it's been a hot second since he's done the 343.
And I'd like to hear from, from our audience.
Do you all agree that he should be bringing that back?
I just, I can do it.
I can do it.
It's easy because those are fast as three questions.
That's it.
It takes about 20 minutes, 30 minutes to record about 20 minutes.
When it's done, I could spit those out.
It's hard to know.
I think you already did one, Mel.
Yeah.
Percy's there.
But life changes.
But did, did, did you and Vernon never do it?
No.
Yeah.
You should fix that.
I could do lots.
I could, I could make a whole business out of those for sure.
And for our, for our high paying podcast, did you ever talk to a Rettie?
Yeah, I did a Rettie.
I thought you did.
Yeah.
All right.
So here we are.
I lost my, I lost my whiteboard.
So you want to play a game?
What's on Alan's desk?
Are we good for that?
Yeah.
Oh, how do we do that?
Did you ever come up with a theme song?
Well, not yet.
I'm working on it.
A friend of mine, I'm not a friend, a chef, I know about some wine from at his rescue.
Really incredible guy.
He gave me a bottle of sparkling red wine.
Can't see this one.
But I'm going to celebrate.
No.
Brent's going to have a PBR.
That's good.
I'll be back in a minute.
A PBR.
All right.
I don't have a theme song.
What's on Alan's desk?
I got obviously some, some red champagne and cheers.
I got the normal stuff I'm recording with.
And I also have this.
It's a box.
Grant, do you have a box like this?
I do have a box that looks remarkably similar to that.
I did take, I did not open the plastic off mine.
It doesn't.
Yeah.
Oh shit.
Jim.
Mo popping in.
Holy crap.
One of the first members of the three.
Oh my God.
Mo Jimbo.
We haven't done shots since the day I left Microsoft.
No, that was tequila at 10 in the morning.
Group hug.
Remember that?
Nine in the morning, whatever that was.
Whatever.
Yeah.
All right.
So, I'm going to do a quick check.
Whatever.
Yeah.
All right.
So we, these are, by the way, we got these in the mail.
We were told they were coming.
We got our addresses.
These are a couple of gifts from our three listeners.
Whoa.
Styrofoam.
Oh, did you open?
Oh, are you opening?
Yeah.
I'm opening.
I'm also, oh my God.
Die.
That is so cool.
Absolutely.
Good.
A tie.
That is so cool.
Oh, my God.
Like I am tempted in the honor of Jim Mo.
Like how I do cramp in my, I have a cramp in my, um, Jim.
No, Jim used to do meetings where.
Oh, he put the little sticky note over the automatic camera.
So it just show a little drawn face.
We had the fancy camera that would just, I would, so by the way, this is a podcast.
So I'm described what I have here.
This is a almost creepy, but in a cool way.
This is a, uh, a little doll bobblehead.
So the bobblehead of me when I was thinner, wearing an AB testing shirt,
holding a microphone with headphones on.
I got my glasses on.
I don't know how else to describe it.
Maybe I can post a photo somewhere.
This is the coolest thing ever.
Show me yours again, Brent.
You and you have the thing I love about it.
Is it, it yours comes with a full on dusty Hill beard.
It had the old beard before I got it trimmed a little bit.
I'm working on growing it back up.
Oh my God.
It's, uh, this is fantastic.
I love it.
And I'm going to ignore that it is.
Freakishly accurate and, um, why the listeners are able to provide that.
It's a super amazing.
Hold on a second.
So I have to, I have to show my wife great podcast material.
Yeah, that's cool.
So yeah.
So thank you three.
Thank you very much.
Oh my gosh.
That is so, it is so cool.
I could just stare at it and laugh the rest of the podcast, but we're going to go on.
That is amazing.
Hey, I would like to take this time.
Um, um, oh my God.
Yeah.
I don't know who to like first draw first.
Someone join us and say something to us or make fun of us or tell us your
favorite AB testing memory or ask a question.
Got to click little button.
I should have planned ahead here.
This is my first time using this platform for this thing.
So there is a way, if you're a guest, you can click a little button and join us.
If you're not shy, uh, nobody here is shy.
I don't know what they're like, like maybe Vern, Vern, it's like in the
middle of the night for you, right?
12, 30, I guess we're no, they've moved.
I don't know, but late for Vernon.
All right, folks, we can just go on.
Um, let me do this.
Let me at the risk of my wifi dying again.
Uh, test Pappy Patrick prill, who was one of the people I recorded with them
Philadelphia and also had dinner with him in, uh, where was it somewhere at some
star conference anyway, great guy, longtime listener, it's, it's literally
like three 30 in the morning for him for 30.
So, uh, but he did leave us a message.
The Allen, the brand congratulations to 10 year anniversary or 200 episodes
of the AB testing podcast.
What a ride it was.
And I enjoyed every 200 episodes.
Not that I started listening 10 years ago, but nine and a half years ago.
And, uh, I always learned a lot from you guys, not that I agreed to everything
that you said, but you always left me with good ideas, with critical thinking
with my head buzzing, uh, after listening to another episode, um, you
raised a few terms, um, that helped me understand how I work.
So thank you also for that.
And yeah, so accelerate the achievement of ship over quality is my mantra for
years, and even if I forget it actively, sometimes, um, when I look back, this
is always what drives me.
So, um, thank you for helping that journey.
And yeah, I wish you a fun 200 episodes and, uh, well deserved break and
looking forward to the next 200 episodes of AB testing podcast and greetings
to all the three out there.
Bye.
That's so nice.
Brett, look, you did make an impact.
We did.
Yeah.
No, Patrick, Patrick has been great.
Like the fact that he's like, I don't always agree.
That's, uh, that's something we want, right?
It's about the conversation.
Right.
And in now we have joining us on the call is actually the first of
the three I have ever met.
Like he even took a two hour train.
I happened to be visiting in, in New York and he took it all show up and we
just sat and, and drink, uh, in my hotel and, um, until he had to run away.
I think, or did I have to run away?
I don't remember.
One of us had to leave.
Yeah.
Thank you guys.
So I had to take that trip because I worked in New York at that time.
So that was a quick five minute walk from the office into the, uh,
what was that the, the Hyatt?
I don't know.
Right in the middle of the time.
It was right off the top square.
Yeah.
I did meet Steve row there too, uh, as, as, as part of your trip.
So that was a good two for, for me.
Um, anyway, so I, I wanted to talk about, because we, we had the
top episode 100, right?
We know we sent you those, uh, handwritten, uh, postcards that we
still have something that's, you know, as personal as, as it can be,
because you guys have made an impact to in, in, in, in as much as
everything else that we do, we do acknowledge that you guys have made
an impact, uh, within the community.
Uh, so, but for this one, we actually tried to start early.
So this, it was August 11 was going through like, uh, the chats that I started.
We started a secret, uh, secret channel, just like what we did the last time.
And we added you on that day that you did a reveal.
So you got to see the planning, but of course Slack has their, uh,
auto archiving feature after 90 days.
So we can't go back to all of those conversations, but we had multiple
iterations of what the gift was going to be.
It was going to be as simple as a, you know, a certificate like an ISTQB type.
We were going to give you guys, uh, pretty much just looking through
like the metrics in the podcast as, you know, like congratulations, Brent,
for having like 12,000 heavy breathing.
So we had those, we had, we even had like a certificate, we even had
like a certificate template and all, and all that stuff, but then Ryan comes
in with this really absolute amazing idea and everybody contributed to it.
Uh, uh, went through, you know, PayPal, Venmo, whatever we can do to send,
uh, to, to give our contributions and, and here we are.
And, and that reveal moment when you guys opened the box.
Thank you.
That was amazing.
I mean, this is fantastic.
Like, like, um, like I don't, so it's hard to focus on it, but I actually
do have a dimple and those details are in here and I'm like, again, I'm
like, okay, I don't know how to do this.
And this is probably one of those things where I don't want to know, but well
done, I'm very happy.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
Our, our, our biggest concern really was the timing because this is hand painted.
Right.
This is, this is, this is not a, just a 3d printing.
This is hand curated by a person and it was done specifically based on some
photos that we've, you know, that Ryan has sent them.
So Ryan, thank you so much for, for taking the lead on this one.
And we definitely appreciate it.
Thank you, Ryan.
The reactions are well worth the effort.
Yeah.
The, the, see, Percy is, we never timed this out.
Like he's sort of the official administrator of the Slack channel.
He started.
Yeah.
He started it.
So he has permissions that, that I think other of the three don't necessarily
have and it's fine.
Um, yeah.
I think he's the owner and you and I are admins and that's it.
That's probably, I think I've given you the ownership, Alan.
Okay.
Cool.
Yeah.
Now I can do fun things and I want to rant for a second on Slack because Slack.
I wish they had, I would love to pay for a little bit better service, but
either you can pay nothing and have no retention or you can pay, you know,
10 bucks a user per month or something like ridiculous, like thousand users.
I could pay 10,000 a month.
If I paid a year in advance for our, it's just like, no, I can't, I would love
to, I would love if they had a hobbyist level, but they don't go well.
I'm surprised that they don't like that.
Their business plan.
I know they should and whatever, but it's all, you know, we have, don't we
have our backup discord should it ever go worse?
Well, we can always go to discord.
I mean, there's a billion other places we can go.
But I, I, I did create the one of the three discord, um, uh, as a good backup.
So I can hand that off to noted.
As, as Adam and Adam, great to hear from you.
I didn't know you still listened to the podcast, but, uh, great that you
noticed that Percy is immortal and does not age.
So, uh, he'll be around forever.
Cool.
Yeah.
We should just, should just transfer the Slack channel back to him.
Well, well, well, all right.
Thank you.
This is, yeah, they're incredible.
I think I may take a picture of mine and use it first from profile
pictures somewhere, um, find the right background for, but it's just amazing.
So it just, it just cracks me up.
But I look at, I have to stop looking at all to keep all laughing.
Brent's going to put his on his shoulder again.
Great for the podcast.
Um, while we wait for more questions to come in, Jim, most got a drop.
Yeah.
Brent Jim, oh, we see your messages.
Uh, thank you.
Thank you.
Let's have very non, I don't even read the questions.
I just clicked green button and Vernon joins us.
Vernon is great to see you.
Vernon.
Chester from Lester.
Hey, greetings you two.
You two legends.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
I, I don't know that that's true.
You're a legend yourself.
Definitely not true.
Thank you for joining us.
What, what do you have to say?
Oh, I'm just going to hype you guys up.
Um, I like to hype you guys up.
So the thing, there's a few things that I really appreciate about what you've done
with the modern testing principles and the podcast.
Um, one of them is the, my favorite thing is the quality transition guide.
That thing is absolutely fantastic.
Like that thing is so good.
It gives, it's given me a really good way to describe the state or the
situation that a team finds itself in without getting all, you know, specific
about, Oh, you're at level three of this thing, or you're at level five of
this thing, it's more about behaviors and characteristics and problems
that you're facing it too.
Lovely work.
I absolutely love that.
And, uh, one of my favorite, uh, episodes, aside from the one that I was
on with you in Philly, that was absolutely genius and too much fun.
Um, was there was an episode you did with a guy called Ronald Cummings,
John, who was a friend of mine who wrote a book called, uh, leading
quality, which I recommend the three to read.
If you haven't read it already.
And Ronald is a very entertaining individual.
And so the three of you together was absolutely fantastic.
So that was a very amusing and illuminating episode.
So yeah, just wanted to give you a shout out.
Thank you.
I think I've been listening.
If it isn't 10 years, it's like, Paddy, it's almost 10 years and it's
really helped me articulate some things that I found difficult to articulate
before and the tagline of modern testing principles is absolute genius.
It's not all that modern and not really about testing.
Yeah.
I raised my laugh every time I think about it because it's accurate.
It's genius.
It's very good.
Well, true.
And you know, uh, so with a Janet and Selena, someone, uh, they wrote
the book on, based on the, on the quality of the transition guy,
which is really good.
Um, so yeah, do what you want with it.
We don't, we're not, uh, as you can tell, we're not in it.
This for the fame.
We do.
We're just trying to tell episode one, tell people what's going on in our words.
And there was that quote from episode one where I said, I was talking
about something happening and someone said, Alan, this would all be
revolutionary if it wasn't already happening.
And then when I went to test bash first time I presented the modern testing
principles at test bash in Brighton in 2017, 18, 17.
Uh, I was worried.
Cause I'm saying things that may scare tester event, a testing conference.
And someone came up to me afterwards and said, thank you for putting
a name to the thing we're already doing.
Oh, we're onto something.
Yeah.
I was, I was at that point we were, I was scared.
We were still in too much of a bubble, but the bubble is getting bigger.
That's great to see.
Yeah, definitely is.
So yeah, cheers guys.
Thank you very much.
Vernon.
Yeah, that it's interesting.
Cause I think we're way past, uh, the tipping point of the, of the curve there.
Like I, I definitely think the more traditional thing is, is far more isolated.
Right.
But I don't know that there's still enough people in the traditional world.
Um, that science or otherwise, uh, we'll find ways to, to help them ease.
Right.
If, if things like LLM, like I saw, I saw Jason was on, I don't know if he still
is, I can't see the list.
Right.
If LLM doesn't just, uh, you know, make things difficult for all anyway.
Um, yeah, it's, I don't know.
Thank you, Vernon.
I'll just go to that.
Like, yeah, this is, this is, is great to hear from everyone.
Like Vernon actually came out the Seattle.
I couldn't make it.
I, it was my loss.
Um, uh, hopefully, hopefully I'll be able to, to meet more of you in person.
I will say I actually, um, uh, it's not something I was, I'm comfortable bringing
up on the podcast just yet, but there's been a situation that has occurred in my
life, Alan's aware, um, that has forced me to actually, um, get a passport.
I, it's the first time I've ever had one.
So I'm like, all right, now there's a whole new world of the world that I
could go potentially, um, visit.
So I'm sorry.
I can't believe you don't have a, I just blows the, I do have a password.
I just fricking told you that.
I can't believe you haven't left the country before.
No, I did.
I've, I've been, I've been out.
I mean, I've been to the Caribbean.
I've been to Mexico.
I've been to Canada.
But place, but those places require passports now.
That was a long time ago.
But that's right.
But I did it in time with passports weren't required.
Yeah.
Stupid American.
Well, if you ever, if you, if you come out this way, please let me know.
And I will, I'll pull a Percy and I will.
Will train you or planes or cars have acquired.
Oh yeah.
No, like you'll be on the short list.
If I win, I go out that way.
Now that I have sort of the big bottleneck resolved, I am absolutely
going to take advantage of it, but there's other difficulties in my way in
the moment, but it's going to happen.
Okay.
Good luck with those.
See you both in person as soon as possible.
Definitely.
And thank you so much for listening.
Thanks for being up in the middle of the fricking night.
Yeah.
Worth it.
Go to bed, dude.
Jesus.
Do you work tomorrow?
No, actually.
Okay.
All right.
My guilt is much less.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
See you guys.
All right.
I think before, uh, that was fun.
This is so great to hear from all of you.
Um, on it left me a message.
I haven't even listened to it yet.
He has a question.
I think I already decided to put an explicit take on this podcast.
So we'll see what he says.
Hi, Alan.
Hi, Brent.
Congratulations in a 200 episode.
While I do hope that I'm sleeping right now when you're recording, I do have a
question about promoting modern testing principles and my question is when to
give up, especially when treating a data oblivious organization, I mean, culture
change is difficult even without looking at a specific content.
You have to do some coalition building.
You have to find some quick wins and all of those regular office politics.
So what signs would cause you to say that it's just not worth it, that it's
too much of an effort and that you don't believe it's going to work.
Thanks.
Nice question.
Let me start on that one.
I should have did that earlier before I had a drink, but, um, I think like I
have a hard time giving up on organizational change.
I do change my expectations.
I may come in, it's like, I'm going to get the whole org to be data-centric.
And then I realize maybe in 20 years or some long amount of time, I look for
the small wins because when you do any, when you want to do any sort of
organizational change, you have a small chunk of people who will, who want to
innovate and do new things.
You have a small group of people, maybe larger, who will actively resist any
change and a bunch of people in the middle waiting to see what happens and
what you do, and this is all from, uh, not all, but highly inspired by one of
my favorite books on leading adaptive changes, leadership on the line by
Ronald Heffetz and you find the allies and you look for the tiny
wins you can celebrate, like find the little things someone can
do towards that goal.
Anytime you're making a change, you have current state, desired state, next steps.
And what you can do in a highly resistant org that just does not want to change
is those next steps become very, very small, but you still look for anything
at all you can do, like whether it's adding, just getting some data in
place, a little bit more data, getting somebody to do something with it,
getting somebody that first time you get someone to make a decision on data.
Huge, huge wins celebrated.
See if you can replicate it, but what I do, like in short, when it's really,
really hard like that and everybody's resisting, I changed the goalposts
and go for the goalposts stay the same.
I changed the scope of what I'm doing now to tinier and tinier increments
until I can begin making progress.
I don't know.
What about you, Brent?
I'm muting.
Uh, I'm meeting you.
Sorry.
Um, so in general, not the world's most patient person I have.
I have, at times I have given up, um, the, the approach it's essentially, um,
I have sort of a three strikes and then I'm out kind of policy where, where I go.
This is a better way.
Uh, I try to show it right.
Um, the, uh, to your point, like while I, while I feel it is possible, right.
It's, uh, you, you look at the problem and you go, okay, what is the issue?
Like for me, uh, as we just talked about, I feel like we talked about in this
episode, it is, you sometimes can't go all the way to the end.
It's too out of the box.
They can't follow you.
It feels complicated.
It feels risky.
Okay.
And so part of, part of it is okay.
How do you make it feel safer?
Um, there was a team I was on.
Um, actually this was when I, when I went to dev and, and being, I
did things entirely different and I got noticed.
Uh, because I was delivering value and results, um, faster than everyone else.
And they couldn't find a quality, uh, issue in terms of the
work that my team was producing.
And it was interesting when I finally left that team or just before I left the team,
we had a reorg and my skip manager told my manager, like, yeah, I don't know how
Brit is, I don't understand how Brit's thing works, but you are to leave him alone.
Like my skip told my manager to leave me alone.
Like your command and control crap not allowed here.
And I was, um, that's when you, when you have the momentum and
you're able to build a plan.
Now at some point in time, you just get tired of beating your head against the wall.
Um, if give up means give up, then you never do that.
Right.
It's for me, I have now got to a point where I'm like, okay, you know what?
It's not me, it's them.
And this is a business leadership.
This is an environment where they aren't motivated to, to literally change.
And what I do in that case, as we've said on the, on the, on the podcast,
it's either, well, paraphrased you either change your job or you change your job.
And, uh, I'm no longer interested if someone, uh, we talked about it a great
deal just recently, like I now know I cannot and will not work in a business
environment that is entrenched by the fixed mindset that I just, it's, it's
not going to work and, um, like Mel, Mel, uh, just wrote it in chat.
Sometimes you have to plant seeds and walk away.
Yeah, that's right.
Our right arm.
Um, you can't help somebody who doesn't think they need help.
All you can do is, is sort of open the door.
Um, do your best to help them see.
And if they can't, um, then it's just be patient, but protect yourself.
Right.
Um, when, when, when I finally left that particular team, I had a long, after a
few months, I had a long number of people reach out to me and say, now I get what
you're trying to say, what, or what you were trying to say this whole time.
Um,
okay, so Brent, thanks for all that bit reminds me of, uh, and I can't, I won't
find the exact quote, but early this calendar year, sometime I got a, a message
on LinkedIn from someone who had had some conflict within the past.
Um, can't quite remember it, but he says the message was like, hi, Alan, I need
to apologize for my outburst and some comments these past couple of years.
I was part of a testing cult.
I got out and I'm currently getting rid of the brainwashing.
So what we had done was planted seeds and Mel's, I think heard this from me before
is like, and yeah, sometimes you have to walk away, but maybe I'm just more
optimistic sometimes, but you just, you drop the little ideas and then
eventually people go, oh, wait, wait, maybe just maybe that weird guy with
the beer was partially right.
You never know.
Uh, we have time for one more question or comment if someone wants to jump on.
Otherwise we can close up here and call it a night.
Well, I'll, I'll, I do want to say, I'm trying to find it.
You'll never find it.
Oh, we're on a, I can't edit this man.
No hidden potential.
So that is a book.
Oh, I just read that book.
It's fantastic.
Yeah.
Um, uh, I didn't read it.
Oh my God.
I mean, it's right there.
For Brent's showing the podcast picture of his phone.
This is what I deal with every two weeks.
Kinda.
Um, uh, that's great.
And one of the, like, one of the things that they, they talk about like,
um, that actually soft skills, uh, it's written by a psychologist who did the
research and I read Adam Grant and I highly recommend this book.
Cause one of the things that, that his statement is saying is that in terms of
sort of productivity and happiness and, and, um, achieving goals and all of that
thing, it's actually the soft skills that matter more than the hard skills.
And one of them, one of them is that, that there was like three and everything
comes in three, like we talk about pink all the time.
I don't have all the three memorized, but one of them was determined.
Autonomy mastery and purpose.
Right.
That's, that's pink.
But on Adam, he had another three and one of them was determination.
Like determination goes far.
It's when you, when you give up that things become a problem.
All right.
Ryan has a great question for you, Brent.
Okay.
It's not for me.
Cause I know nothing about the answers for you, Brent.
Okay.
All right.
Hey, I just want to first say, I'm glad you guys like the bobbleheads.
Trying to have it cover my own head.
There we go.
All right.
Anyway, go ahead, Brian.
So a couple, a couple episodes back, you were, Brent, you were really
kind of bleak on LLMs.
Like I, I, for a minute there, I felt like the, uh, we had to call in
the Terminator and SkyNet was taking over.
Um, just, just in my own experience, right?
I work in the medical industry.
We've built some of our own LLMs and they're quite remarkable.
Right.
So I want to know if either of you really from both of you has that changed?
Like, um, do you still kind of have a apprehension?
Oh, it's, it's fun, particularly since I know Jason is actually on the call.
Uh, so I don't, I, Jason Phil, welcome to come in and call bullshit.
If you'd like, um, LLM never represented to me.
Really?
I'll put it this way.
LLM to me represented the slippery slope.
That's how I'll say it.
Like I, uh, I see not enough people focused on ethics.
Um, they're doing things because they can now.
And as the saying goes, the road to hell is paved on good intentions.
So I was like, all right, okay, let's go forward, but let's not have any accidents
here because in the world that we're going into, there's no turning back from
accidents, right?
And so I guess the LLM doesn't scare me nearly as much as LLM in the
hands of the intellectual lazy.
And that keep that keeps me up at night.
Um, and I was the good, does the good outweigh the bad?
Um, um, hard to say.
I'm going to answer that.
I have an answer for that because my, in my, I did a little exploration
of blog posts this weekend and I posited it's going to all tie back together.
It's not a tangent.
I posited that like the data is out there showing what you need to
do to create healthy orgs.
It's out there.
So why aren't people doing it?
So I found it some research.
I've ended up just asking chat GPT.
It's because people either it's come from egos or intellectual laziness.
So my answer your question, right?
Or for fear.
Yes.
It's in fear is the ego.
Fear is the ego.
Those are the same thing.
So my worry is that LLMs, the definitely the potential is the good outweighs the bad.
Everything I have seen against LLMs, everything where people say, Oh, this chat
GPT is dumb, it's all every single thing or knocking them down come from the
intellectually lazy or the people who think they know the answer is so much
better, like they don't want to, they don't want to ask an LLM for the answer
because I know it already.
It comes from fear and intellectual laziness.
And I worry there's too many.
I mean, I don't know what the bubble.
I don't know how big that population is versus the growth mindset who just
wants to discover new stuff and figure out how things work in a proper way.
So I'm a little afraid because I'm beginning the internet.
My, my worldview is based on what I see on the internet.
I'm a little worried because my worldview tells me that there are far more
intellectually lazy and fear driven ego people than I thought there were before
I began exploring.
I, and actually it's even, there was an article I read, right?
Uh, and actually, uh, we're going to see, uh, in, in, in Jason posted in the
Slack channel today around Claude.ai.
Um, it, we're going to see competition in the AI space.
We're going to see, uh, people be able to reproduce and actually we already are, uh,
people being able to either crowdsource and work together to build their own
little generative AI.
Uh, we're going to be able to see generative AI being able to be trained and
developed on something like this.
That's a phone.
Right.
A, a, and you, you put that in the hands of evil people, right?
Um, uh, voice AI, I haven't proven this my, this myself, but, um, it was listening
to something on APR and, uh, they did a whole episode on GPT driven and then
they brought in other, uh, AI bits.
And apparently the people who do voice AI, all they need is three seconds of
audio and they can completely clone your voice.
And I'm like, okay, let's put that in the hands of the fraudsters and the scammers
and let's see what happens to society.
Right.
One person can now have sort of the impact.
Um, actually the way it was described to me is one person will have on in their
device, the potential to have the negative impact, similar to a nuclear bomb.
Well, well, think about, I mean, this is a deep hole to go into you, but, but the,
the applicable, uh, the application of that technology for scammers is
massively huge Brent, let's say you get a call from your son who does not live
with you easily lives wherever.
And it's his voice saying, dad, I'm in trouble.
I'm in Mexico.
I got to have $5,000 as soon as you can, please wire it to me.
And it's his voice.
And what are you going to do?
Um, it with, with the tech that I have available today, I'm going to send
$5,000 to, to, to some potential fraudster in Mexico.
Uh, got to have code, got to have code words.
He has to say orange banana.
Or, or well, I'll probably text him immediately or call him just
to get some quick confirm.
They can spoof Sims and enter and intercept that.
Right.
This is, this is where I basically say like things like ASI, AGI, right.
If there aren't ethics or regulation in play, uh, yeah, that that's a,
that's a scary world.
The, the, uh, in terms of is the good outweigh the bad with LLM specifically.
I would say in my experience, it probably does.
Right.
The, the under certain conditions.
Like I think I posted in the Slack channel, like I absolutely
think it's unethical, unethical to, to apply a personality to LLM.
Like I, the people who don't understand that yes, this can pass the Turing test,
but it is not a thinking entity at all.
You are falling in love with the, with the.
Go watch her.
Yeah.
Um, I'm gonna, I'm gonna really, and Brent, yeah, go ahead.
I'm gonna wrap this up.
Do it.
Okay.
I've, I've, I've, I've, that was a great question because now
our string of AB testing podcasts talking about AI is now at 173.
No, like glad I could contribute.
No, thank you.
That was a great question.
Absolutely.
It's good stuff.
I think, I think it's actually, as Jason will tell you, I think testers
paying attention to AI is going to become more and more prevalent because
that's, that's, there's the, is that critical thinking that people that
come from tests generally have and thinking about like, what is the real
problem we're trying to solve here?
That's actually pretty important to think about.
Yeah.
I, I think going back to what, what Brent said earlier, um, where egos
will get in the way, things like that, going back to we'll mention Scott
Galloway again, but he always says that, you know, the Java corporations
is just to make money, right?
They they're really, really good at it.
They shouldn't be, they shouldn't be, uh, they shouldn't be in govern, you
know, govern any, any other thing other than to make money and, you know,
regulations and our leaders should be putting things in place.
But unfortunately they haven't been doing that in the last couple of years.
So have leaders who aren't 750 years.
If you, if you keep going down that path, like the problem is, um, people
need to be employed in order to give your company money, right?
It so yeah.
And I don't want to go to like apocalyptic point of view, but
I go, okay, this is not a zero sum gain.
And in one of the things that human society, so if we bring in LLMs, like
I'm teaching my daughter, like I'm encouraging her do things with LLM.
Don't cheat, but do things with LLM because it's, um, the, the human and
the machine working together is always going to outperform either one
of them working independently.
It's just straight up true.
So I'm like AI is part of her life.
You need to get familiar with it.
You need to understand how to use it as a tool.
Cause that's going to be a differentiator.
Um, but as we need to make every other big event that has occurred like this,
human society has adapted and found a new way to grow.
Okay.
That could happen this time, but in terms of the speed at which the predicting
there is a risk, it may not.
Right.
Um, I don't know, there's a bunch of futurists that are predicting the
singularity, I don't know if that's theory or like, I haven't, I don't
know what it is, but I'm like, okay.
Unless we want to see a massive population decrease so that we can
restabilize society, right?
Um, like so we have automate or, or we got to go into something like
Star Trek where there is no money and it's all altruism and I'm like, all right.
The society I know today is not ready to go to that one.
Um, anyway, yeah.
I'm sorry, Alan.
I wound them up again.
You did.
You went, I reeled them in and he let him take the line and swim out in the river again.
It's a fun topic.
Yes.
We've already had someone in chat, renamed themselves to how 9,000 and it wasn't Jason.
No.
All right.
It's I'm going to hang up and listen.
Thank you, Ryan.
I brand.
It's Skynet not how 9,000.
Okay.
All right.
So notice the typing that Brent was doing while, while Ryan was talking that stuff.
I normally edit out not happening.
You were getting pure unedited Brent.
Everybody please comment when you, when you give us a five star rating, please make
sure five star ratings, please make sure you comment explicitly around the empathy you
feel for Alan.
Hey, did I ever press record?
Oh, I did.
Okay.
We're good.
I'm good here.
I think, uh, one, first off, uh, we're going to wrap up.
I want to thank everyone for hanging out with us.
I want to thank the people who have listened to any of our podcasts forever.
I want to especially thank the bobble hit Ryan and the bobblehead crew.
I'm going to have so much fun with that.
And, uh, yeah, I don't know if we can do 200 more, but we can do one more and
then one more after that and we'll see what happens.
200 more, 10 more years.
No, I don't know.
I'm pretty old already.
Yeah.
There's a chance one of us dies.
So yeah.
It was, oh, how do you think if we look back in 10 years, like we look back 10
years ago at Microsoft down, that was pretty hilarious.
Yeah.
If 10 years from now, we look back, go, Oh, I remember on Alan was only.
Anyway, you don't talk a lot about your current job.
So I don't know what we'll say though.
I don't know either.
I try and, I try and keep it on the down low case, you know, because really
what I want to do is I want to email Kara Swisher.
I want to email gem sake and people who have addresses that I can get, get
to from the address book, but that's a whole other story.
So, uh, Brent, um, let's call it a day.
This has been episode 200 of AB testing.
I am Alan.
I'm Brent.
And we'll see you for 201 Sunday.